Parking Lot

Object: The goal of this project is to create a Parking Lot system, which can show how many vacant spots out there. We keep track of the parking spot number and car's plate, so that we can find either of it with the other variable. When the car exits the parking lot, the lot can adjust the status accordingly. As well as record the time that the car has been in the parking lot. 

Here are the ideas of this program.

class Car inherited from class Vehicle. Vehicle only has one member field that is the plate number. However, in the future we might need the type of the car or the size of the car to customize like normal spot and compact spot. The inheritance allow us to build based on the Vehicle. In the Car class, the member function "getPlate" is implemented, because it is what will actually be instantiated. Furthermore, for memeory management purpose, Vehicle has a virtual destructor so that when a "Car" gets destructed, we make sure that the "plate" field that it inherited from will be destroyed as well, thus avoiding potential memory leak.

class ParkingSpot represents the properities of an indivitual spots, it might be for people with disability. It has an ID number, and a boolean field occupied indicating whether it is available to the public. Also a member field "car" to record which car is on the spot. ID number of the parking spot is usually integer.

Obviously, class ParkingLot is a vector of ParkingSpots that handles the overall parking lot. ParkingLot has two important functions, one is initialize(): it initializing parking according to the input compacity and number of disabled that user determines.  I initialized each parking lot with a lambda function because the initializing ID will probabiliy be used for just once. The other important function is Park(). It is where vehicle interacts with the Parking Lot. In this function, I want to use the generic algorithm for_each to go through the vector of parking spots, print out the ID of available spots and a vehicle get to decide which spot it wants to take. And then I use an iterator to go through the container to find that spot and changes its status accordingly. I used printif as a functor so that I can use the generic algorithm. Finally I want to use a hash map to record the one-to-one relationship between each car and its parking spot, and it happens in the main function. The exit() function is a simplier implementation of park(). 

In the main function, where basically the operation of the parking lot takes place.

Other note:
The importance of move semantics and copy & swap idoim couldn't really be shown in this program, because each spot and each vehicle is unique. So there does not involve much transfer of ownership between objects. To involve, I think template class can used for ID numbers because they can be integer or string based on the need. I didn't use smart pointers because the container I am using is std::vector, which follows the RAII so that when it goes out of scope, compiler would take care of it for me, thus minimizing the potential of memeory leak. I didn't figure out how to integrate my program with QT, but it is something to think about in the future. In this program, I used std::vecotr and std::unordered_map. The advantage of unordered_map is to allow me rapidly record/find the spot with the car, and the order here doesn't really matter. For the list of Parking Spots I chose to use vector, because vector is flexible with inserting element and change the size compared to array. I also thought about using our RingQueue iterator here, but in reality when the lot is out of compacity, we can't just replace a car by the new car easily. There is not much point of using RingQueue here. 